Documentation/Weekly_Minutes.md, before:

# Week 1

## Done:
- Creation of Github repository
- Decision of Dataset to be used
- Set-up of weekly meetings
- Discussion on course of action
- Exploration of useful gitHub features

## To do:
- Experiment with Github and Github branches
- Explore the dataset and brainstorm graph ideas
- Explore Week1 material

## Issues
- None

### Next meeting: 20/01/22 14:00 - 15:00
<br>

# Week 2

## Done
- Familiarisation with dash apps, dash bootstrap components, dash html components
- Presentation and discussion of potential graph ideas
- Selection of the principal graphs to create for next week: choropleth, bubble (to include distinction between men and 
women, radar)
- Discussion of the idea for the main page:
  - present the choropleth as the opening graph
  - have the others as part of the 'top 10'
  - use an index

## To do for next week
- Develop precise, well-presented graphs (ideally before the next tutorial)
- Work on the following graphs:
  - Dilara: radar chart
  - Caterina: bubble chart
  - Nikos and Andrea: choropleth map

# Issues 
- none

### Next meeting: 24/01/22 11:00 - 13:00 - informal meeting between classes
### Next online meeting: 27/01/22 15:00
<br>

# Week 3

## Done
- The subgroups started working on the dash plots using both plotly express and go libraries
- Comparison and brainstorming to improve the different charts and implement better interactivity
- Division of work to complete within Sunday before next informal meeting (Monday 31/01):
  - Andrea: Choropleth styling and side chart
  - Dilara: Radar chart (implement comparison)
  - Caterina: Bubble chart interactivity 
  - Nikos: Generate multi page structure and side chart (support Andrea)
- Discussion of the idea for the main page and others
- Decision on overall format and naming/styling convention

## To do for next week
- Develop precise, well-presented graphs (before Monday 31st)
- Watch videos on testing 
- Brainstorm about testing possibilities
- Start thinking about next subgroups and work allocation

# Issues 
- none

### Next meeting: 31/01/22 11:00 - 13:00 , 17:00 - 19:00 - informal meeting between classes
### Next online meeting: 03/02/22 14:00
<br>

# Week 4

## Done
- Chloropleth map: styling finalised
- Radar chart: 2 chart comparison version finalised. Faced an issue when nothing is selected in the dropdown: needs to be solved before next informal meeting (07/02)
- Bubblechart: Bubble chart innteractivity solved
- Incorporated charts on the multipage. 

## To do for next week
- Look up different testing libraries
- Go over testing material 
- Start testing from 08/02 (next tutorial)

# Issues 
- none

### Next meeting: 07/02/22 11:00 - 13:00 - informal meeting between classes
### Next online meeting: 10/02/22 14:00
<br>

Commit message:

Added weekly minutes for week 5.

Documentation/Weekly_Minutes.md, after:

# Week 1

## Done
- Creation of Github repository
- Decision of Dataset to be used
- Set-up of weekly meetings
- Discussion on course of action
- Exploration of useful gitHub features

## To do
- Experiment with Github and Github branches
- Explore the dataset and brainstorm graph ideas
- Explore Week1 material

## Issues
- None

### Next meeting: 20/01/22 14:00 - 15:00
<br>

# Week 2

## Done
- Familiarisation with dash apps, dash bootstrap components, dash html components
- Presentation and discussion of potential graph ideas
- Selection of the principal graphs to create for next week: choropleth, bubble (to include distinction between men and 
women, radar)
- Discussion of the idea for the main page:
  - present the choropleth as the opening graph
  - have the others as part of the 'top 10'
  - use an index

## To do for next week
- Develop precise, well-presented graphs (ideally before the next tutorial)
- Work on the following graphs:
  - Dilara: radar chart
  - Caterina: bubble chart
  - Nikos and Andrea: choropleth map

# Issues 
- none

### Next meeting: 24/01/22 11:00 - 13:00 - informal meeting between classes
### Next online meeting: 27/01/22 15:00
<br>

# Week 3

## Done
- The subgroups started working on the dash plots using both plotly express and go libraries
- Comparison and brainstorming to improve the different charts and implement better interactivity
- Division of work to complete within Sunday before next informal meeting (Monday 31/01):
  - Andrea: Choropleth styling and side chart
  - Dilara: Radar chart (implement comparison)
  - Caterina: Bubble chart interactivity 
  - Nikos: Generate multi page structure and side chart (support Andrea)
- Discussion of the idea for the main page and others
- Decision on overall format and naming/styling convention

## To do for next week
- Develop precise, well-presented graphs (before Monday 31st)
- Watch videos on testing 
- Brainstorm about testing possibilities
- Start thinking about next subgroups and work allocation

# Issues 
- none

### Next meeting: 31/01/22 11:00 - 13:00 , 17:00 - 19:00 - informal meeting between classes
### Next online meeting: 03/02/22 14:00
<br>

# Week 4

## Done
- Chloropleth map: styling finalised
- Radar chart: 2 chart comparison version finalised. Faced an issue when nothing is selected in the dropdown: needs to be solved before next informal meeting (07/02)
- Bubblechart: Bubble chart innteractivity solved
- Incorporated charts on the multipage. 

## To do for next week
- Look up different testing libraries
- Go over testing material 
- Start testing from 08/02 (next tutorial)

# Issues 
- none

### Next meeting: 07/02/22 11:00 - 13:00 - informal meeting between classes
### Meeting to finalise coursework: 11/02/22 14:00 - 20:00 - meeting in engineering hub room 211
<br>

# Week 5

## Done
- All charts were finalised
- All tests were executed

## To do for next week
- Finalise the layout of the app
- Add some notes about the process in the md
- Submit the coursework

# Issues 
- none

<br>
